- Hey everyone out there in the live stream.
Thanks so much for being here.
It's great to see you all.
So many exciting comments here.
Unexpected maker, glad you were able to make it.
Hello, Matt, Mike, Corey,
thanks for the heads up on the talk.
Hello, Johnny, Jim.
Please keep the comments coming during the show.
I'll try to send them along to Scott and Damien.
And yeah, we'll go ahead and get started.
You two are ready?
- Yep.
- Scott, Damien, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
Damien, welcome back.
Scott, great to have you here.
- Thanks for having me.
- Hi, yeah, thanks for having me as well.
- Yeah, it's really good to have you both here.
And normally I ask people how they got into programming.
Damien, you've already told your story
and maybe I think we'll mix it up just a little bit.
Let's maybe just have you both do a quick introduction
about how you fit into the Python world
and what you're up to these days.
Damian, you want to go first?
Sure.
Yeah, so I'm the creator of MicroPython.
It's been a long journey in the past nine years or so.
Before that, I was a theoretical physicist and I studied at Melbourne University in Australia
and did a PhD in theoretical physics.
my PhD was in extra dimensions
and kind of string theory related stuff.
- That's super cool.
- Yeah, it was it's-
- It's gonna be like, you know, astrophysics type thing.
It's gotta be something small
if you're working on MicroPython, right?
Like if that's your-
- Well, the thing with the particle physics
is all about the tiny, tiny things.
The box is sort of as small as we know,
but also linking to cosmology,
which is the really, really huge things.
and the idea of cosmology is to link the tiny with the large.
But yeah, that's all, I guess, very different
from microcontrollers and programming and software
and hardware and real tangible things.
How do you get from physics to programming side of things?
I always liked computers and programming.
And I always had that as a side hobby.
and I actually also studied computer engineering
and mathematics, but physics was the thing I kept,
I did sort of professionally, if you could say that,
and always had on the side, microcontrollers and my desk
and CNC machines and sort of half built robots.
- Fantastic.
- Yeah, so turned that eventually into MicroPython
when I was doing a postdoc in Cambridge.
And yeah, I did a Kickstarter with MicroPython,
and then that all sort of continued on
and continued and grew and grew.
And that's how I sort of end up where I am now.
- Cool.
Kickstarter was so neat when it came out in 2015, 2014,
whatever time that was.
It seemed like it had such possibility.
Now I don't hear about it as much anymore.
I know it's still out there, but.
- Yeah, I think it was a bit earlier than that,
'cause we did it at the end of 2013
and it had already been around a few years.
Yeah, but it was such a huge thing back then.
- Yeah, super cool that you'll answer on that.
Scott, how about you?
- So I got into programming with PHP was my first language.
So I came kind of like from the website of things.
And then when I wanted to do desktop apps, I found Python
and you can still find a source for page,
source Forge page for a program called Denu,
which is like dynamic menu stuff
for like managing your menus in Linux.
That was my first Python program, that was 2004.
So that's before I went to university
and then I got a computer engineering degree
and I taught some of the intro TA classes there
and did like a Python version of it there.
So like Python's kind of always followed me
throughout my career.
After university, I did six years in industry
and then took a year off and did drone flight controller hardware stuff.
And then when that was coming to an end,
when I was going to have to find a new job,
I went to Adafruit and said, "Hey, I need a job."
And they were like, "Hey, we have this project in MyNarUK
doing a project that we want."
And it was to bring MicroPython to their boards
that had a different microcontroller than what MicroPython supported originally.
So that was in August of 2016 that I started working on the Adafruit version of MicroPython,
which then became CircuitPython.
So CircuitPython is a fork of MicroPython that originally was for Adafruit's microcontrollers,
and we've really pushed it to be really uniform and a good beginner experience.
So that's kind of how we fit in.
Yeah, super interesting.
In brief.
Well, it sounds to me like with your drone experience
and all the small servos and electronics
and then this programming background,
it's kind of a nice thing to bring together as well, right?
- Yeah, I mean, like I had done Python for a long, long time
and I had just gotten into embedded
and I really liked that the software depth, so to speak,
is like much thinner, right?
Like there's a lot less software
between the hardware and your code.
And I thought that was really cool
MicroPython was amazing how well it brings Python
to those inexpensive devices.
- Yeah, so MicroPython was first, Damian,
and then CircuitPython was forked from it to,
like Scott said, to make it work a little bit closer
with the Adafruit stuff.
Is that sort of the history of it there?
- Yeah.
I think there's a, well,
there's sort of a different focus on the use,
they're sort of the end user and what level of experience you have and
kind of what you intend to do with the device.
So I see it as MicroPython being used in industry and professionally
to build products and CircuitPython is to support, well initially to
support Ada for its hardware but also more for
for kind of beginners and people who are getting into hardware and want to
have a sort of much easier on-boarding with libraries and things that are
working with the hardware that Adapter Fruit
provides. So there's a real distinction there
with the audience and therefore the kind of features and
things that we focus on. So there's a lot of focus in
MicroPython on code coverage and making sure
things are really stable, we're as stable as we can make them across releases so that
people who are working with MicroPython in a product can continue to work and
be confident that updating will fix bugs and not change other things too drastically.
We get a lot of sort of requests for features and bug fixes and
things from people using it professionally. And so I have to keep an eye on a lot of
all these things so that when they come together, all the people I know who are using MicroPython
are not going to suddenly have the rug pulled out from under them when they switch
to the next version because something else has changed. >> All right, that's an interesting
the sort of pro production side versus Adafruit
is so very welcoming towards, this is your first project,
your first IoT thing.
I like to build something for like a science project.
I mean, Scott, maybe you could classify it better.
You know, certainly better than I do what the specific focus is.
But when I go to Adafruit and I look around,
I get this feel that it's very much like these kits
and very supportive of like getting started
And not like, hey, how's your robot doing?
Here's where you plug in the thing
for your industrial car making robot.
- Yeah, I mean, I think you're both right on it.
I think there's a bit, two aspects to it.
One is like the focus that I brought to the project.
And I mentioned the TAing, the intro course in university,
'cause I think that does have a lot of influence
over how I drive our focus for CircuitPython
is like, we're very focused on what that experience
in the first five minutes that you've ever programmed,
not just hardware, but programming in general,
what that first five minute experience is.
So we've done things like all of those CircuitPython boards
that we now support are all show up as a USB drive
once you've put CircuitPython on it.
And so all of the tutorials and things that we've written
on top of that is uniform across that.
And then that dovetails nicely
into Adafruit's business model,
where they really do focus on beginners
because the reality is there's far more beginners
than there are intermediate and advanced electronics folks.
So from a business perspective,
Adafruit's interested in the beginner side
just because that's where the vast majority of people are.
- Yeah, I also feel like the zen or the ethos
of Adafruit at the beginning was to inspire people
getting into programming and getting into hardware
like from the beginning, right?
that was sort of almost why it was founded.
- Yeah, I mean, like Adafruit started around,
like it's always been a matter of open source software,
open source hardware and open source tutorials, right?
Like Lomor, the founder of Adafruit, who goes by Ladyada,
like she started even before Adafruit was a company,
writing tutorials about how people could go
get all the parts to build this one thing.
So that's very, you know,
a lot of what we think about with CircuitPython
is not necessarily teaching you to code from if statements
but actually just getting you all the code to do a project.
And then from there, now it's modifying that project
in the way that you want,
rather than starting from a blank screen.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
Coming out in the live stream,
Sean Tibor from Teaching Python Podcast.
Hey, Sean.
He's a teacher who teaches programming.
Also I know uses some of the Adafruit stuff
and Circa Python.
It says the speed from zero to blinky lights
is really important for learning.
We've got that study from the BBC micro bit
where they gave that to, I guess,
all seventh graders or something in the UK.
I think that's roughly right anyway.
And it really changed how many people saw themselves
as interested in programming,
especially young girls said,
well, they're way more likely to take a programming course
after having something physical and neat
that you can play with
rather than just a terminal with a print statement.
So yeah, I think that I agree with that as well.
What do you all think?
- Yeah, I agree getting a blinking light is,
it's the hell of a world of microcontrollers,
but it's actually really quite hard,
you know, whatever your piece of hardware is.
So often when I'm making MicroPython work
on a new piece of hardware,
the thing you can get to is once you can get a blinking LED,
then you're sort of set.
But getting there is really hard.
And I'm not talking actually about blinking an LED in Python.
I'm just blinking an LED however you can
in assembly or C or whatever.
Because getting a tool chain working,
making the plugging in the board, powering it up,
knowing how to power it up,
knowing how to get it into a mode
where you can change the firmware on it.
These things take, it can take days.
I mean, or longer.
- And why is my serial port working right
and all sorts of stuff.
- So to port MicroPython to a new microcontroller,
once you've got a tool chain, a way to flash the device
and you can blink an LED or write characters to a UART,
then getting MicroPython working
is probably another hour's worth of work.
And then you've got the whole of MicroPython ecosystem
that you can play with.
But from a beginner's point of view,
it's a similar sort of story.
they want to they get something they've never done it before, they've got a piece of hardware and
you know what's going on. So blinking an LED to get to that stage there's a lot of
kind of conceptual hurdles and also you know maybe installing things on your computer hurdles as well
but to get to a blinking LED is really the beginning and then from there you can be a
whole sort of world of possibility opens up because you can see then how you can turn that into a real
project. Yeah, start to work with the other sensors.
Things like the accelerometers
or motion or microphone
or anything, right? Exactly, yep.
Yeah, I think maybe it makes sense to pause for just a moment
and define microcontroller for people. So I have a
Mac mini here. It's small, right? That's not a microcontroller. I could
get a Raspberry Pi which is even smaller, still not a microcontroller. Like give us a sense for
the size of these boards and like what does the hardware look like? I mean it's not really
physical size. A microcontroller itself is actually more complicated than a PC in some sense. But
a PC like a Mac mini or a laptop or Raspberry Pi, that has a CPU in it
and it's connected usually to a keyboard and a screen and maybe some audio
and Wi-Fi or some kind of internet.
And it's relatively straightforward, it's a CPU that is fast and does a
lot of processing and can output to a screen at a high
refresh rate and you can interact with it.
But a microcontroller is a CPU plus a lot of other peripherals around it,
like UART and SPI and I2C and I2S and Ethernet and Wi-Fi and then really low-level stuff like DMA
and things that make the microcontroller work in a microcontrollery way, timers that interrupt it
very precisely. So a microcontroller is what they say
sometimes a system on a chip, SoC. It's a real tightly
interconnected piece of silicon which has a CPU at the center which controls
things, but what's more important is the things it's
controlling. And it's got to do that in a really
precise and real-time way so that what it's controlling,
say a coffee machine or an airplane is guaranteed to work every time the same way and run for years
without having any problems. But if you have a laptop and you know that's probably
not going to run for years without needing to be upgraded or crashing for some reason.
So yeah there is this kind of distinction there, it's a bit subtle but
The microcontroller is a really precise machine and a really complex machine in the way it
interacts. Would you say more real-time? Yes, that's one of its tasks is to be real-time.
And it's not as powerful as a laptop or a PC, but it is more sort of capable.
And also programming it is a lot harder.
So I think it's important to say that microcontrollers are typically used
to do a single task in a larger system.
So think of your car and I think a Tesla has a microcontroller that manages the door handle, for example.
So microcontrollers are in a lot of things.
Damien said toasters is another example.
So that means that they're everywhere.
you just don't see them.
And that has the benefit of being very low cost.
So the microcontrollers, which are like the black chip
on the circuit playground you see here,
they're only like a couple centimeters square.
You know, they'll cost under a dollar
or a few dollars at most,
which means that they're really inexpensive to get into.
In terms of processing power,
what you'll see is like if my desktop has 32 gigs of RAM,
But a microcontroller will have anywhere from like eight kilobytes of RAM
up to maybe a megabyte of RAM,
or a few megabytes of RAM at the higher end.
And the distinction between a microcontroller and a microprocessor
also involves how good it is at doing multiple things.
Specifically, there's memory protection stuff that will happen
in your desktop CPU that a microcontroller typically cannot do.
So really, it's usually just a single task thing.
- So unlike macOS or Linux or whatever,
you've got the OS and then it's running your processes
often in user space, they have protected memory,
there's a bunch of them,
the OS is doing preemptive multi-threading,
all those kinds of things.
This, your Python program,
your MicroPython or CircuitPython
basically is the operating system almost, right?
It's like got full control.
- Right.
there's a real-time operating system under the hood,
but in some other cases there isn't.
- Okay, interesting.
So one of the things that might be fun to talk about
is we've got MicroPython and we've got CircuitPython
and we've also, you know, when people say Python,
they often mean python.org, CPython, Python.
Damian, you wanna start us off with maybe like,
What's the difference between this huge,
I don't know how large it is, 40, 50 megabyte thing
I download from python.org
and then maybe what MicroPython is.
What's the same and what's different?
Can I take a random Python program
and run it on MicroPython and so on?
- Yeah, that's a really good question.
And I guess, yeah, it's sort of the biggest thing
about if it's called Python, like MicroPython,
shouldn't it be just the same as Python?
And why can't I just use Python instead if it's the same?
So to begin with, you can't run Python
on a little microcontroller because Python,
it uses too much memory is kind of the base,
really the reason.
- Just to load the runtime libraries probably exceeds
the entire working memory.
just to load sort of the mapping table of Unicode character names is megabytes of data,
which MicroPython obviously doesn't support. But so then one of the main things when I was writing
MicroPython was to make sure it didn't use memory where possible. So all of the things that could be
put into read-only memory or flash or ROM were put in there. So dictionaries and modules
and things that are sort of built in like a sys module,
all of that is in read-only memory in MicroPython
and CircuitPython, whereas in normal Python
pretty much everything is put into RAM.
And so when you make, yeah, when you if you try to run Python on a
CPython on a microcontroller you would need megabytes of RAM.
and that really is the main difference, but then there's a lot of other
things on a sort of a list of things that are different to make MicroPython efficient on a
microcontroller, to make it small in code size, to make it run relatively efficiently, and as part
of that we had to make some sacrifices in compatibility with CPython. So there are some
things that are not the same, but for the most part it, MicroPython and CirclePython really do
feel like normal Python. The syntax is the same at least up to a given Python version because Python
keeps adding syntax. The syntax is exactly the same and the semantics of the syntax are the same,
and a lot of the built-in types are, you know, one-to-one mapping with the same semantics and
the same methods. So there's a lot of things down there that are very similar because
Python is such a dynamic language and such a big language that it has so many sort of
little corner cases and things that behave a certain way and when you're used to
Python you're used to that. - I want to change that meta class so that this other thing does this other
weird thing in this way and I'm expecting to patch that when we load this module and
Yeah, yeah, exactly. - Scott's shaking his head like, "Maybe not." - But even down to things like how division
and modulo work with negative numbers is sort of very specific, you know, when you have a modulo b
and the negative numbers then the answer is a certain way and MicroPython copies that as well.
So there's a lot of subtleties there that you may not realize that over the years we've gotten,
to make sure it's the right thing, CPython just because we've got a lot of tests and a lot of
people giving feedback when it's not exactly as they expect. And yeah, I mean, I've definitely
learned so much about CPython and, well, the Python language, because so many things I had no idea
about. - You had to get the exact nuanced details of how this thing or that thing works, right?
To make sure it's the same. One of the things that I think is worth keeping in mind as people think
about this is when somebody says, "I love Python" or "I think Python works this way" or "Python is
is this thing and it's productive or it's whatever,
it's slow, it's fast.
They often can be talking about many things.
Somebody could say, I love Python
and they mean the Python syntax.
that I get the standard library.
So cool that it comes with all of these things
in the standard library.
They could mean I pip installed pandas and requests
and now something cool happened.
- Right.
- When you say Python runs there,
there's like, you kind of got to say,
okay, well, what are we talking about?
Are we, it's mostly the language for sure,
but there's gotta be a ton of standard library things
that don't make sense.
Like there's this one about parsing CSS hex values,
like who cares?
TK enter, don't care.
- Yeah, I did.
- SQLite, maybe, I don't know.
- Yeah.
- I was gonna say, I did actually do a like lightning talk
at the last language summit, kind of on this topic.
And like Damian was saying, like to his credit,
MicroPython is Python in the core syntax areas
and the built-in types.
But as you kind of grow outwards
into like the standard library,
things get omitted a lot.
Because frankly, the standard library in CPython is large.
And so I did kind of a comparison there
and I can share people with the slides,
but like take all this stuff in CPython
and show what's in CircuitPython.
- That's cool.
- I've been having like discussions off and on
with Brett Cannon about this as well,
'cause he's been thinking about like,
how would you define like a minimum version of Python?
And I think that MicroPython did such a great job of that.
It feels like Python to me,
I had the background in Python before,
so like coming to MicroPython, it felt very natural.
So I think we're a good case for that.
- Yeah, I think you definitely are.
You know, Brett was,
I know he's been thinking a lot about WebAssembly
and what would it look like
if we could have Python and WebAssembly
and we could have it in these other,
you know, like what would a mobile Python look like
and these different environments
that are not just desktops plus servers
and having this standard core Python subset
is a pretty neat idea, yeah.
A couple of things from the live stream,
Sean has a warning for everyone who gets into this
that these microcontrollers tend to multiply quickly.
He started with just one or two
and now he has a whole collection.
I can't see what's in your background, Damian,
but Scott, you seem to have a bunch of these things
gathered around.
- Oh yeah, this room is a mess right now.
I probably have at least a dozen on my desk though as well.
- Yeah, I just got to find new and inventive ways
of actually organizing them.
'Cause I mean, this thing like, you know,
a box full of dev boards sort of in plastic blister packs.
- Yeah, I take it back.
- The blister packs are too big, I try to take those out.
- Yeah.
- I have bins per manufacturer, so like STM, NRF,
Atmel, of all the different development boards.
- Yeah.
I don't know, there's just, yeah,
there's a whole lot of stuff everywhere.
- They're inexpensive, they're impulse buyable,
which is bad.
- Exactly, I'll take three of those and one of these,
and yeah, amazing.
But it's gotta be a collection of cool little things.
Yeah, it's also important to figure out
what each individual microcontroller can do uniquely.
What makes something unique?
It's obvious, if it's a BLE chip,
then that's obviously what you wanna do.
If it's Wi-Fi, that's what it can do.
But the RP2040, which is the new chip from Raspberry Pi,
they have this really weird, unique peripheral
that allows to do really, really, really real-time stuff.
because an actual CPU in a microcontroller
is still not perfectly real-time.
So they have this special thing that they added
that can do some really impressive real-time stuff.
So it's very interesting to see the stuff
that's standard between all these things
and then what's different.
- Yeah, I can imagine.
All right, well, one more interesting thing
I wanna ask you about from the live stream.
Tim out there asks,
"What are your thoughts on CircuitPython
being used in TI calculators?"
So the new TI-84 comes with programming as,
and you can write Python.
Where's the bit in here?
I don't remember what the,
oh, here it is, the programming bits where you can see.
But yeah, I mean, I remember programming in calculators
being-
- Yeah, I did that.
- Really weird.
Yeah, I didn't see what, I mean, a little bit funky,
but, you know, having Python there is quite neat as well.
- Yeah, so this is a fork of CircuitPython.
- Interesting.
- So it's not publicly released, which is totally okay.
And they are careful not to call it CircuitPython,
which is good as well.
But that does mean that like,
if you go to circuitpython.org/downloads,
you won't find like the latest version of CircuitPython
for your calculator.
But generally, I think it's great.
Like, I love seeing people build on CircuitPython,
just like we've built on MicroPython.
Like people should do that.
really neat. Yeah, absolutely. And then another one out there that's neat that says, Matt says,
"MicroPython and the new Lego Spike delighted the inner teenager in me."
Did you catch that, Damien? You must have known about this, right? How do you take this news?
Yeah, that was pretty amazing. It was a year or a couple of years ago, I think,
what it may be the longer three years ago when they started, while they contacted me about it.
So it's still an ongoing thing, there's a Lego education which is separate to sort of Lego
retail. Lego education is for schools, I remember using that when I was in high school a long long
time ago. It's obviously Lego but it's the different kit and it's different focus on what
you do with it. And the Lego education these days, sort of the new version of Mindstorms is
uses MicroPython in the hub, the sort of the central processing unit of the central sort of
Lego control. - Do they expose that to the kids to play with or is it just like a runtime internal
sort of thing? It's kind of both.
The thing that you can get for Lego
education is using MicroPython to implement
sort of what the kids see, but I think there are plans to make
it so that you can actually use MicroPython directly.
That'd be really neat.
- Yeah.
So yeah, very cool.
- Yeah, very cool.
I think it's great.
Scott, I asked about the comparison
between MicroPython and CPython.
You wanna close the circle
and go from maybe the differences
of MicroPython and CircuitPython.
Like why are there two things here and whatnot?
How people think about like,
if I'm gonna work with one or the other,
where would they go?
Yeah, so I think the why is what Damon iterated earlier,
is like our focus in CircuitPython really is beginners.
And coming into Adafruit, I also knew that their model is that,
like for every device that they sell,
they provide example code and drivers for it.
And because Adafruit was going to do this for the Python world,
we had to make sure that the hardware abstraction layer,
like the modules you import in Python that allow you access to the hardware,
would be consistent across everything that runs CircuitPython.
So you saw me get a little niggly about,
it's not actually CircuitPython on the TI calculator,
because I think the branding of CircuitPython is really important,
because it means that you can download it from the website,
you can use the APIs that we have standard as CircuitPython,
and therefore all of our CircuitPython libraries work on top of that,
all our guides for CircuitPython work on top of that.
So that was really, you know, one of the more important things for us is having that uniform API that we can then build all of this Python software on top of.
So that's, that's one of the main main differences, it should be, I should say that we do actually have this layer called Blinka now, that allows you to use micro Python under the hood, or actually see Python under the hood.
But it presents that same circuit Python API for other things as well.
So this line has been blurred some.
But the thing that doesn't come with that is that in CircuitPython, we still do
ensure that your workflow is the same as well.
So all of the CircuitPython boards that you can download now, except in the future,
this is going to change, show up as a CircuitPy drive, and you can edit the code.py file on it.
It runs after you save it automatically.
And it's really quick and easy to iterate on.
So I would encourage--
- There's a file watcher that looks at your source file
that is the program.
And if it sees a change,
it kind of just reboots super quick and reruns it, right?
- It's not even that smart.
It's any write to the file system.
It doesn't know what file you're writing to.
It's just any write will trigger that.
And the caveat I had is I'm working
on a BLE only workflow as well.
So in the future,
there will be two ways of using CircuitPython.
there will be a USB way and a Bluetooth low energy way.
- So you don't have to actually connect physically
to the thing, it could be over there and you can program it.
- That ends from phones and tablets in particular.
Devices that aren't really easily interoperable over USB.
We wanna bring the beginner experience of programming
in CircuitPython to those devices as well.
So that's the caveat.
Like right now everything does USB,
but I'm like working on the micro bit V2 right now that will not be doing USB.
It'll only be doing Bluetooth low energy.
Yeah, that sounds more complicated.
Yeah, it is.
Very useful, but I just without a wire, you know, yeah, when my headphones like
get disconnected, like, oh, interference, how frustrating.
And but, you know, when that's your connection, right?
Bluetooth is yeah.
Bluetooth has come a long way and I have had it working a bit.
Uh, a lot of the challenge with Bluetooth is there's no standard way of doing like
file transfer. So we really like we're working on apps to be able to transfer files and apps
that are letting you pull that will pull down all the example code and automatically load
that over. And that file transfer API that we have is all public. So if folks want to
a link to that, I can send them a link to that protocol. So yeah, there's a lot more
work off the device to do for for this Bluetooth stuff.
- That's cool.
So I see on circuitpython.org,
it says Blinka and CircuitPython libraries
are just a pip install away.
So if I'm working, but I'm on my desktop machine
or server machine, can I still do like prototyping
and try the libraries?
What does that mean?
- It's not every computer.
If you're on a Raspberry Pi,
it will work because that is supported.
If you actually, I think if you click
that single board computers link,
it'll show you all the ones that we specifically support.
But single board computer is like a Linux class computer
that usually breaks out general purpose IO, GPIO.
So that's kind of the class of Linux computers
that you'll be able to use this on.
- Okay.
- And then we do also have a couple of cases
where you could like plug something into your USB
that would also like give you that GPIO on another device.
- Yeah, okay, cool.
Question from the live stream for Tim again,
how has the workflow changed over the past?
Hold on a second.
There we go.
Sorry, how has the workflow changed over the past few years
for a CirclePython and MicroPython when deploying code?
And it sounds like Matt's talking about MP remote.
Damon, you wanna talk about what the deployment looks like?
Yeah, there's a lot of sort of answers to that question
from a MicroPython point of view.
As I mentioned, if you're using MicroPython in a product,
then it's a really different setup
as if you're using it in a hobby
trying to make your light turn on and off.
So using it in a professional setting,
you'll probably have a big sort of workflow or setup
where you can freeze the code into MicroPython
deploy it or something like this. - Yeah, in production, what do you put actually on there?
Do you go and say, "Well, we're going to put a PYC file there instead of the Python
file," or is there stuff like that you might do? - Yeah, we have our MPYs sort of instead of PYC.
Pre-compiled code, yes. But there's sort of a further step where you can take pre-compiled code
and then sort of freeze that into a C data structure, which becomes part of the firmware
itself. So big projects might have hundreds of Python files which are then all pre-compiled
and frozen and then built into the firmware and then deployed onto the device.
Is there any room for something like Cython or Numba or some one of these C compiler type things?
Yeah, Cython don't really support that but you can write C code as well if you need to, if you
really need speed, you can implement a module in C and then tie that into Python quite easily.
So there are lots of options in terms of making things faster or efficient or the way you do your
workflow, but sort of to get back to the original question, MPRemote is a new tool that was released
in the last version and it's intended to make a workflow, well give you more options, you can
use it to copy files on and off, get a REPL on the board, or one of the main features is to mount,
so make your PC's file system available on the device that you're running on. So
you mount the, you mount your PC's file system on your Pi board or ESP32 or whatever,
and then when you go onto the board and do it os.lister
you actually can list the files on your pc running
on the board. So this allows you to basically do all your work on the pc and
then your board can import and run code from
the pc, read and write files from the pc.
And so the workflow is very quick and when you're sort of
happy you can then pre-compile or copy files
MPY files onto the board to run it disconnected from the PC. This is also good for sort of
testing integration tests of devices. They can sort of interact more closely with the PC that
they're testing against, and yeah, just aims to provide you with more things, tools,
- Fingertips to make your workflow more productive.
- Yeah, that's neat.
When I wanna put something onto my server
to upgrade like a course site, something like that,
I'll do some work locally.
I'll do a Git push, some magic will happen.
GitHub will do a webhook back over to the server.
The server will grab that.
It'll pull it down, install the new dependencies,
restart the server through like a zero downtime
sort of firewall type of thing.
If I have a robot in a factory, what do I do?
Is there a continuous deployment equivalent for things or what's the story look like over
there?
Yeah, that's a good question.
I think this came up the last time we had a couple chats between the folks that work
on CircuitPython and the folks that work on MicroPython.
I think this was kind of a topic that we all said, "Yeah, that would be really nice."
I mean, we don't have a sort of recommended
or official way to do all of that.
But I guess what you're talking about
is over the air updates maybe kind of answers the question.
- Yeah, basically, yeah.
Like if I had a Tesla, sometimes I wake up in the morning,
maybe my Tesla does different things.
It's something like that, but for micropython things.
- Well, if you have a factory full of robots,
you probably don't want them to automatically update
'cause you need to be there when it happens
need to control it and do it at the right time and so on.
It really depends heavily on the project that you have,
but over the outdates are sort of definitely
the way to do this and they have been done and they are
sort of out in the field and they're done in lots of different ways
like some over bluetooth where you download the new firmware and then
it's a little like what's working on now yeah.
Yeah, so an automated way to install the new code and then reboot.
But and then other places where it's they're connected by a USB and you can
just do a normal DFU upgrade or similar or maybe over
i2c they're listening in a special mode to download new code.
There are lots of ways to do it and there are
lots of sort of parts in MicroPython's code that
allow you to do it. And it really depends on your project.
I think Scott has a different answer.
Well I was gonna say from the hobby side like it's never
I don't we don't focus on the automated update story.
But you know a lot of the folks that that use CircuitPython are coming from
an Arduino world. So Arduino is a really common
hobby. It's based on C but it's got some like
stuff on top of the C stuff.
But it means that you have to have a computer that
has Arduino installed that can compile the source code.
And because we focus so much on this interaction of it
shows up as a USB drive, it actually
means that it makes it more accessible to update.
So if I'm remote and somebody wrote the software for me once,
but now they want me to update it,
even though I don't understand how it's doing,
I can plug it in.
It shows up as a drive, and I can copy files over.
So it's really has been beneficial for folks that way,
whether it's the Python code they're updating,
or a lot of our boards also come with a bootloader,
which is like the software that manages
what you're installing.
And a lot of our bootloaders for devices
also show up as a drive as well.
So it's still a manual process,
but it's a manual process that's gotten better
from the previous things.
- Right, and from the hobby perspective,
you could have a little app or something that says,
Oh, I noticed we're connected to this thing
and we're just gonna, it's out of date.
So we're just gonna push some stuff to it.
- Yeah, we actually have some community members
who've really fleshed out this app called CIRCUP,
C-I-R-C-U-P, which you can pip install.
And that will like figure out all the libraries
on your CircuitPy drive that are out of date
and update them for you.
Which is pretty neat.
So it's kind of like the pip of CircuitPython.
- Yeah. - That's cool.
- Yeah, that's very neat.
Yeah, I'm just sure the requirements
and concerns are extremely different
if you're working with a small hobby device
versus something that is controlling a robot
or runs a thing that shouldn't go down.
So one thing I wanted to definitely focus on
while we were here together,
seeing I find it is somewhere.
Oh, it's hiding now this.
There's a lot of work that has been done.
it sounds to me like on the CircuitPython side
to catch up with MicroPython.
Is that right?
Wanna tell us about that, Scott?
- Yeah, so the history of this is like,
when Adafruit started paying me to work
on what became CircuitPython,
it was like, okay, I'm gonna write a whole lot of code,
right, so that's when on GitHub I hit fork.
That's when I added a new port for @mlsamd,
and that's kind of when we split.
And later on, we decided like, oh, you know, like, we have enough changes here
that it would be a lot of work for both Damien and us to get those changes merged back together.
And that's still very true.
But what I said at the time was that we would kind of keep pace for every stable release that we do,
we would keep pace with stable releases from MicroPython.
That wasn't true for about like two or three years.
We stopped updating.
We do it's basically a Git merge, right?
So it's a whole lot of work.
And so I did, we had six versions of MicroPython emerging.
So I did those.
That's like 112 through 115 or 110, something like that.
And then since then, we've actually updated 116 as well.
So what's involved with that is like,
MicroPython has both like a Pi folder,
which you can think of as kind of like the VM.
We think of that as kind of the core.
and then there's separate ports for each main type of chip that we support.
And we don't really share code with MicroPython
for those different implementations for different chips,
but we do share that core Python VM.
So a lot of the work to merge in MicroPython
is like updating all of that core stuff.
And the discussions that Damian and I have had
along with the other folks that work on these two projects
has been like, all right, what can we do just to get back to this world
where we have the same copy of that Pi folder.
Because there's like a few weird things
that like CircuitPython has done
that haven't been merged back into MicroPython
and we've had discussions about
which things are those are interesting
and which ones would we wanna make configurable
and things like that.
- Yeah, interesting.
- So now that we're updated,
we have this foundation
where we can have this discussion again
because we actually can tell like what the differences are
between the two latest versions of these projects.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, Larry Bank out the live stream says,
"My imaging codec still haven't been merged
into MicroPython."
- There's a lot of things that haven't been merged
into MicroPython.
- Yeah, Damien, I was gonna ask you,
what does this mean for MicroPython?
Like obviously it makes sense for CircuitPython
to just not be out of date.
And the farther you are away from one of these merges,
it's more like credit card debt.
A little bit is fine, but as it gets farther,
it starts to become a problem.
But in reverse, there's probably a lot of things
that people who are engaged on the CircuitPython side
could bring back if it was basically the same.
- Yeah, I mean, there are some, yeah,
there's some great things that CircuitPython Squad has done
with garbage collection for one thing.
And it's, yeah, it would be great to share
common py folder at least, and we've had, as he said, we've had discussions about
sort of how we can smooth things or make things more common and where we know we differ,
you know, how we can make it easier that we differ. So yeah, there's been recently actually
a really good improvement in MicroPython for tab completion, so that it didn't have to be
underscore and also tab completed imports, you do imports based tab and then it lists the
tab completes the things you can import, and some good improvements for sort of fuzzing and
sanitization of addresses and sort of various subtle bug fixes that have come across. So
So it's yeah, look it's really great to have an open source project and because other people
find bugs for you and fix them. So I think the more we can be in line the better.
And there are actually other, I mean there are other people using MicroPython and CircuitPython
as we saw with the calculator and Lego. And I think in the early days I was happy
people were using MicroPython and wasn't too concerned about sort of people forking and
changing things. But these days, I've shifted more towards, well, what can MicroPython do to
make it easier for other people to use it without changing it? - Right, so when they're about to
think, "Maybe I need to fork this to do this," you're like, "Well, why are they about to push that button?
What can we do to make it more extensible or whatever it needs to be?" - Yeah, how can we make
someone else's life easier so they don't have to fork. Not that we want to accommodate everybody,
we can't, but does it make sense to talk with these people and then make sure that
their needs can be met in a sensible way and maybe it helps everyone else as well?
So yeah, it just helps the community when you have less sort of forking and more cohesion.
Yeah, it absolutely does. I mean, we've seen the Python 2, Python 3 stuff mostly get resolved
by people finally moving all onto the same place where the core devs spend their time, and I think
that that's only been beneficial. It seems like a lot of projects are taking some of these ideas
and picking up speed, whereas there used to be a lot of hesitancy as there's too many different
paths in the road. Yeah, well, I'm just glad I did Python 3 from the beginning with MicroPython.
I was just playing around with this.
I was able to use like a smiley face emoji as a variable name and it just worked, which
kind of blew my mind.
So that's super credit to Damien for making MicroPython really, really strong, really
robust and really Python.
I think, you know, in terms of like CircuitPython and MicroPython, another thing that I think
we can really complement MicroPython with is like, we can, we're willing to be more experimental.
Damien alluded to this memory allocation thing that he, I pitched to him at one point, and he
was like, "Well, we'll put it in CircuitPython, we'll see how it goes, and then you can decide
whether you want it or not." So I think that's a benefit that we can have in CircuitPython is that
like, because Damien really wants MicroPython to be stable, we can try things out in CircuitPython,
and then he can pick the things that he wants to move into MicroPython.
That's a fantastic way to look at it.
The fact that you've got these merge differences,
these version differences down to such a small gap.
It's not like, "Well, that would have worked three years ago."
I'm not sure it works now.
Now you're basically experimenting on what is the real thing.
Right.
Yeah, and that's helpful for this tab complete thing
where somebody added it into CircuitPython and we merged it,
but then they also made a pull request to MicroPython
and making sure that they're starting from a closer baseline will help everybody as well.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Yeah, and I mean, it's really good to hear you do 1.16, and we're trying hard from
MicroPython's side to release every two months or so, so that it's either for everybody to upgrade
and it doesn't take so long for a new release to come out.
- Yeah, and what's the schedule for CircuitPython, Scott?
We don't have a set timeline.
We do try to get in a rhythm of--
we do both stable and prerelease releases.
And we don't have a fixed schedule,
but we tend to try to have pretty recent prereleases out.
And then if it's been long enough
that we're recommending the prerelease over the stable
release, we ask ourselves, OK, why aren't we just
calling this a stable release.
And that gives us a forcing function
to up the stable release.
We are in this window between major releases.
So we're currently doing 7.0 stable--
or pre-releases for that.
And that's a chance when we did all these merges,
because we get a lot of instability.
Not because the code we're merging in is bad,
but the merge is really hard.
It's hard to get correct.
So we're kind of in this very big state of flux right now with CircuitPython,
where a lot of things are changing, and we're very quickly approaching this like,
"All right, we got to stop changing things so that we can stabilize,"
because we're no longer recommending the stable release,
we're recommending the pre-release.
Yeah.
Because when somebody introduces a new board,
and it's like, "Oh, well, that new board is not supported in the stable release,
you have to use the pre-release," that's largely a forcing function for us.
Interesting that the hardware is driving the software like that.
Yeah, and that's a thing from like a number of us are funded by Adafruit to work on it.
So when Adafruit releases new hardware, we have to decide like how we're going to make it available.
Absolutely. All right. Let me take one question from the live stream. This is from Murray. Hey, Murray.
I don't actually know the details, but I'll read to you. I'm sure you all do. Here's a different question.
What's the state of MicroPython-lib project as regards to the bigger MicroPython project?
Yes, that's a good question. The aim is to switch to, you know, improving
MicroPython lib. It languished a bit because, well, there was just a lot of stuff to do in the
main repository, but now that a lot of the code in the main repository has sort of stabilized and
settle down and mature, there's more scope now to go and write everything, well write all the
extra bits in Python and put them in MicroPython lib. So we have recently reorganized that
repository to be a bit clearer as to what's in there, and the aim is to maintain it
and keep it running and put lots of libraries in there, improve the
CPython standard library support and other things. There you might have
noticed there was AIOBLE which is a asynchronous Bluetooth library
which is in MicroPython lib and is being used in production. It's pretty
good in terms of stability, it's very good in terms of features and what it can do, it's really
quite amazing how it makes Bluetooth simple. Bluetooth is a very asynchronous thing and a very
high latency thing, so having an asynchronous API is really beneficial. So that's just one example
of a library that is written in Python, pure Python, and is in MicroPython lib. And we aim to
continue that trend. I know that it's a little bit stale, some code in there, but we will fix
things in the very near future. Yeah, very neat.
Speaking of asynchronous, what are some of the
this question both of you, what are some of the shiny language features that are
new and neat in there like asynchrono-wait, can I do that with the
Bluetooth library? Or walrus, can I do a walrus operator?
What's going on? Like what can I do? Well we have
we have a micro async io, uasync io, which is in its third sort of iteration, third version,
and that's been I think about a year old now, that version, and that also has been used in
quite a few production systems. That's also quite stable, and I think is a really good showcase of
using Python on microcontrollers because things on microcontrollers, well some things take time
like reading a sensor and waiting for a Bluetooth packet to arrive and you've got to do lots of
things at once like blink a light to indicate progress. It'd be great to have those events
come in right? Yeah so event-based but also easy to sort of use because I mean multi-threading
using, you know, threading in Python you can do, you can do that on some
MicroPython ports, but it's heavy weight in the sense that
it uses a lot of memory for each stack, a stack of each thread,
and it's slow to switch and respond, so it's not a great
solution. So cooperative multitasking, which is
what asyncio is, is I think a better solution than
threading on a microcontroller and even on a desktop.
And it works really well.
When you have something that's well suited to asyncio,
it's a really fun experience to program.
- And it's aptly named because what it's really well suited
to is waiting on things like IO, right?
Waiting on these devices, on these various sensors
and stuff to come back and just say,
hey, I've got an input, I've got a call back or whatever.
Like that's, it seems like the perfect case.
It's not like, well, we're trying to do all
those computational stuff, asynchronous, like, well, that work is quite well that way.
- Yeah, like, you know, you may just want to wait for a pin to change from high to low.
So you spawn a task and you, you know, await on the pin and then when that statement continues,
it means the pin has changed. That's hard to do in a sort of callback-based system.
Well, it's not, I mean, it's just different conceptually and maybe it's harder to reason
about things. So there are, yeah we have support for these fancy features asyncio and the walrus
operator we had in f strings are not yet in, I think circuit python has f string.
Oh you guys already have the f strings. Yeah we, Damian has a higher bar for merging than we do.
Interesting. Yeah so in circuit python side we have f strings merged in but we haven't done this
work on the async stuff that Damien's really done.
Because our audience is beginners, I really pushed us not to do async stuff.
Because I think something that beginners don't necessarily understand is like the
computer literally does things in order that you want it to do. And so a lot of
the examples that I that would that we use and that we get
to people to doing is just doesn't use async. So it's not
been a focus of ours. One of the reasons to merge was to get
the newer async stuff in and kind of hope that somebody would come
along and turn it on and make sure it's all working.
But we've had the opposite approach.
And I think talking about async, one of the things that we've been thinking about is async
is very networking oriented in terms of Python.
And it's not necessarily clear how that impacts hardware APIs and waiting for pins and things.
So I think it's really interesting to think about how async applies to things like spy
transactions and I squared C transactions and what exactly like we talked about how
CircuitPython has a different hardware layer than MicroPython does and like I don't think either of
us have really come up with a like what does that look like when you have async await support.
So I'm curious to see what Damian comes up with. Yeah I mean we do, we have recently
merged I2S support which has a preliminary async I/O support in it as well so you can
yeah asynchronously send and receive audio buffers. We also have async support for pins using
well a small sort of piece of wrapper code. A thread safe flag is our main sort of
interaction between interrupts and async I/O so you create a thread safe flag object
On the asyncio side you wait on the flag and on the IRQ side, so some event happens like a spy transaction completes and you get an IRQ and then you can set the thread safe flag and then that will mean that the task waiting on that can continue.
So yeah, but I agree, Scott, that it's still early days with API for connecting I2C and things like that into the async world.
I know one project I'm sort of working on uses asyncIO and Bluetooth and threadsafe flag with pins,
but yeah nothing else is async. But the things that are async are very important to be async.
And a lot of the time just asyncio.sleep is the thing you want, and yeah just wait for a bit of time.
So you're waiting on a PNN sleeping is actually gets you a long way.
So but I think it's still early days and even asyncIO in CPython is sort of still early days
in the sense that they're still trying to work through what API is good for streams and there's
Trio as well which is providing good feedback to CPython on asyncIO. So it's still early days in
in the whole Python space.
- Yeah, there's my favorite unsync,
which is a unification layer on tops of threads,
multi-processing and asyncio.
And it's like, I think the whole implementation
is 126 lines of Python in one file, but it's glorious.
All right, one final topic I wanna touch on here.
There's been a lot of interesting work
about making Python regular old server side,
desktop side, CPython faster.
There's been a bunch of interesting things coming on.
Pigeon from Microsoft is kind of making a comeback.
I think Anthony Shah is doing some work on that.
Maybe Brett Cannon as well.
There's Cinder, the Instagram crew has released
with really interesting stuff going on
about making a lot of interesting changes in the runtime
about making it faster, stuff about like immortal instances
that are sort of not subject to GC
and reference counting and whatnot.
We've got the latest language summit.
Guido was talking about interesting things he's doing
and focusing on to try to sort of accomplish the same goal.
Is any of this stuff influencing
what you all are thinking about
or is it just not really applicable?
I think, yeah, this is a really big topic because Python has a long history
and it's used in a lot of places for a lot of different things and it's built by a community
unlike other languages. I mean, yeah, lots of languages built by communities but Python in
particular is one of the, you know, so the more popular languages that is really just community run
- You might say it as something like,
it's built by a very diverse community,
technically speaking, as opposed to say JavaScript,
which is almost always web.
And then kind of recently it's been a little node,
but like it's astrophysicists, it's embedded,
it's data science, it's web.
Like there's a lot of different pressures
and areas that Python gets put into.
- Yeah, and the focus has not been on performance.
It's been on usability and features
and keeping up with that. - Backwards compatibility.
Yeah, I mean it's been, it's such a, it is an old language that has evolved a long way,
like C is an old language but C hasn't changed that much. C++ is an old thing, well C++ has
changed a lot but it's got a very big community around it and lots of production. But Python is
sort of, yeah, it's got such an amazing and passionate community who do all this stuff for
free. And performance is something that's sort of always been in the back of people's minds, but
it needs a lot of work and it kind of needs a stable Python language before you can consider
performance. You know, you can't optimize along the way of adding features, it's really hard.
Anyway, this is sort of just to say that it's a big topic and lots of people have tried to make
Python faster and PyPy is an amazing piece of software that makes Python faster. One of my
first big Python projects we used PyPy because it was really, really good and made things a lot
faster, like 10 times faster, and we didn't have any sort of extension modules that didn't work
with PyPy, they all did work with PyPy and it was really, really good. So use that if it
works for you. Although it's a bit big though, but what it does is does really well.
On the other hand, making CPython faster, just the core CPython, I think is a fantastic goal.
And I think probably the thing I would say is that any interest in Python is good for
CircuitPython and MicroPython and the general Python ecosystem, just because it's people
working on Python and trying to make it better. Whether or not, you know, there's something that
comes out at the end is kind of secondary. It's that people are interested and hacking on things
and having fun and things will come out of it. Maybe it's not going to be a very fast, a super
fast CPython at the end, although that would be really great and that's what people are really,
really working towards now. But I just think the general interest in Python is the biggest thing
that will come to us is that Python will be in the headlines more and people will be
talking about how it's faster now and it's interesting and it will change people's perceptions
and then people will learn more about MicroPython and through Python.
We'll start having to deal with all these articles of people are leaving C and Go because it's so slow now and
- Well, yeah, Python is such an ergonomic language.
It's so great.
- Yeah, it's so lovely.
I think actually the performance side is just so,
so many layers, right?
Like it's slow, except for if you use the SciPy libraries,
all of a sudden it's really fast.
And then like, it's just, it's super interesting.
Scott, you're good, David.
- No, I mean, it really depends what you're using it for.
And I don't think you should,
slow Python shouldn't be, it should be banished
sort of that concept.
It should be like, use Python and see if it works for you.
'Cause, and if it doesn't, you know,
then use a different language.
But that's the same you say with any language.
It's like use the language if it's gonna work for you.
- And oftentimes it's just, well,
you're not using the right part of the Python ecosystem
to address that problem.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, Scott, do you wanna maybe weigh in on that real quick
before we wrap it up?
Since we're about out of time.
- Yeah, generally I delegate to Damian.
Damien does a lot of work on this core and makes it really fast.
I try not to get sucked into the performance stuff
because I'm trying to do the workflow side of things.
But I did want to point out for those folks that are coming from CPython
and may not have done embedded Python,
is that the boards that we run on, both MicroPython and CircuitPython,
we're very much in Moore's Law territory still.
The first board that I supported is 48 megahertz,
but the TNT4 runs at 600 megahertz.
So we can get a lot of speed within this domain
by paying a few dollars more.
And that's important to realize,
is that like the things that we do for speed
may not be the things that you would do in CPython.
- Interesting, yeah.
There's hardly a make the computer faster answer.
- Yeah, but we do have a turbo.
We do kind of have a turbo button
if we can just clock the CPU faster.
- Yeah, awesome.
My Pentium 90 had a turbo button, I loved it.
And it was probably just as fast as what we're running
MicroPython and CircuitPython on now.
- Oh, interesting.
Yeah, for sure.
All right, you guys.
Well, we could go on and on and on about this.
Maybe we'll have to do another episode,
but I think we're probably out of time.
So I'm gonna ask you a couple of wrap-up questions.
I normally ask the editor and PyPI library.
Maybe we'll go ahead and do that,
but I wanna throw in maybe one more thing as well.
So let's do editor first.
If you're gonna write some code that runs on
either Circuit or MicroPython devices,
what editor do you use?
- Vim, I use Vim since day one, I think.
- Right on, Scott?
- I use Sublime Text.
- Cool, very good, very good.
Notable PyPI package, something out there
that's pretty cool.
I've seen a bunch of things going by in the live chat
as we're talking, it's very active today.
I think HTTPIE is really quite a cool tool for like instead of Wget.
- I've 100% moved to HTTPI. HTTPI, I guess is how you yeah it's
it's like curl or Wget but you get like syntax highlighting
for your response. It's beautiful. - And it's actually a good
tool for when you're like working with MicroPython if MicroPython
actually accepts HTTP, it's not just for pretty printing. It's good for actual workflow as well.
Yeah, cool. Scott, you got one to recommend?
For the folks in CPython who are getting into hardware, if you have a Raspberry Pi, Blinka is
great as the foundation. You'll want to find a device that you're interested in using, and then
then you can use Blinka.
Yeah, I don't know.
That's a really good one.
The HTTPi is a good one.
I'll have to take a look at that.
- Yeah, I've completely switched on all my servers
and even on my desktop to just have that for testing thing.
It's really, really good.
Okay, here's the extra third question
that normally we don't get.
So if you're gonna work on a project,
I have all these ideas of things
that I would love to create and stuff,
but I don't ever know really what the right
hardware for it is.
So I guess, Damon, you first,
if you're gonna work on something,
you've got some idea,
you know, what kind of board would you get?
Maybe you have to give us a little background
on like the scope of the idea or the context,
but what board would you play with
that people are thinking of getting into stuff
and playing with it and so on?
- Yeah, that's a good question.
It really depends on the project.
If you want something like the pie board,
we started making and selling that like eight years ago.
was with the first kickstarter and we still sell a lot of these. The original pi board
down a little bit on that page, yeah that one, and that's just a really good general purpose
workhorse with good I/O support and I use it still today to do things and that's really cool.
If you want high performance wi-fi bluetooth, if you just scroll back up a bit then the new
pi board d is what you need. That has really fast wi-fi and really good bluetooth support.
The Raspberry pypyco I think is a really another really good option if you want something that
is relatively cheap and has good functionality and this new PIO, programmable IO stuff that
Scott was talking about. That's also a really cool option. There's a whole lot of stuff out there.
there's a lot of choice and it's all really good choice.
Exciting, yeah very exciting and not super expensive as you all are saying
like you can get them and try them it's not a huge investment. Scott what's
your your dream board that you would a
recommended board you would start with? I don't think there's any one board.
I see some people trying to make this a particular board they have do something
that it doesn't necessarily do very well. So what I recommend people is actually
go to learn.adafruit.com,
which is where Adafruit has all of our tutorials.
And look there, find a project that is close
or exactly what you want to do,
and then you'll see all of the stuff that you need to do that.
That's where I would start, because not only are you picking the hardware
that you could use to do what you want,
but you're also getting all the software to do it as well.
So you're definitely getting a head start
by starting from an existing project.
Yeah, that's an interesting perspective.
Instead of what board do I want?
What project, what thing do I want to create and solve?
Now what hardware do I need to facilitate that?
Yeah, and then the other thing you can do is
if you go to circuitpython.org/downloads,
you actually can type different features.
You want to see all the BLE boards or the Wi-Fi boards?
It will filter out the boards there for you.
And those are all the boards that CircuitPython runs on.
- Very neat, very neat.
All right, you guys, well,
thank you for being here and sharing this.
It's really cool to see the two projects
working more closely together,
and I hope they both keep going strong.
- Thank you, thanks for having me.
- Yeah, absolutely. - Yeah, thanks for having us.
- But, so final call to action,
people wanna get started, one from each of you, I guess.
Like, what would you tell people?
- Well, go to micropython.org,
go to forum.micropython.org,
where our forum is,
that's sort of the most active place for discussion.
And then github/micropython/micropython
is also where all of the development action is.
- Scott?
- For CircuitPython, you can go to circuitpython.org
and the slash downloads is particularly useful
if you happen to have a device already in hand,
that will get you the file for that particular device.
If you want to hang out with us that are working on CircuitPython,
we do have an Adafruit Discord server that everybody is welcome to join.
You can go to the URL adafru.it/discord.
That's the short link for it.
And that will get you in there.
You'll see there's a CircuitPython dev channel.
That's where we coordinate all the development.
And on GitHub, we're github.com/adafruit/circuitpython.
Although we are...
- Sorry, go ahead.
- I was going to say, we're moving more and more to...
we have a CircuitPython organization as well.
So maybe at some point we'll do,
we'll be github.com/circuitpython/circuitpython.
- Right on, I was also just gonna throw out
that you do a fair number of live stream,
Twitch-like things. - I do.
- Maybe just tell people about that as well,
if they wanna catch you there.
- Yeah, so I started live streaming
kind of like as the pandemic ramped up,
as just like something I've wanted to do.
So I started doing it regularly.
I do it at 2 p.m. Pacific on the Adafruit channels.
So you can go to youtube.com/adafruit.
It's called Deep Dive with Scott.
There's a playlist there.
They tend to be about two hours or more and very casual,
no editing, but I answer questions
and show off into the weeds of CircuitPython stuff.
And we've gotten a lot of contributors out of that,
which has been great.
So if you wanna hang out on a Friday afternoon,
everybody's welcome to do that.
And we've talked to Damian about joining that
at some point as well.
- Cool, well, I look forward to seeing you both
over there as well.
So thanks for being on the show.
- Thanks Michael. - Thank you.
- Yeah, you bet.
Thanks everyone for all the comments and live stream.
See you later.
(audience laughing)